/* @Author: Dynamic Duo Learners */

Inheritance
---------------
Inheritance is an OOP concept that allows 
definition of derived entities from existing 
ones.

The derived entity gets:
* Code
* Data
* Compatibility
from the existing one.

The derived entity is host for extended code and data.

Java Terminology
------------------
The existing entity that is the inherited one, 
is termed as the super class.

The derived entitiy that is the inheriting one, 
is termed as the sub class.

"extends" keyword is used to implement inheritance 
in Java.

FYI:
 One class can inherit one super class only.
 One interface can inherit multiple super interfaces.
 
Inheritance of CODE
---------------------
Java allows inheritance, by which the sub class 
can access all non private code (methods) of the 
super class, through its own object.

The sub class may :
1) Use the inherited methods.
2) Override the inherited methods and then use them.
3) Define extended methods and use them.

Method Overriding
------------------
Method Overriding is redefining a non static 
method in the sub class, keeping the methods 
signature same.

The method can have a compatible return type.


Type Compatibility
-------------------
Inheritance creates Type Compatibility between 
the super and the sub class.
Type Compatibility allows a super class reference 
to refer to an object of the sub class.
(Reverse is not true).

A super class reference that refers to an object 
of the sub class can access the inherited and 
overridden methods only.
The extended methods of the sub class are not 
accessible using the super class reference.

Binding
---------
Binding is connecting a method call with a definition.
It is the role of the compiler to perform binding.
For binding the compiler uses a signature matching technique.

Calls to constructors, methods, static methods, 
overloaded methods and constructors are mapped by 
the compiler at compile time. 
Hence cases of early binding.


Runtime Binding
-----------------
When compiler encounters calls to overridden
methods using a super class reference then it
doesnt bind.

The reasons being :
1) Ability of super class reference to refer to object of self type and sub class as well.
2) Multiple definition of method available due to overriding.

Hence:
At execution time, system encounters an unbound call.
So system activates Runtime Type Identification mechanism to detect 
the type of object being refered by the super class reference.

Next according to the type object the version of the overridden 
method is selected and bound.

This process of connecting a method call with the methods 
definition is termed as Runtime Binding or Late Binding or 
Dynamic Method Dispatch.


Coupling 
-----------
Is the degree upto which a class knows about another class.

Two classes may be 
1) Tightly Coupled
In this case a class directly uses reference to 
another class and accesses many-all members 
of the target class.

Tight Coupling limits the class reference to refer 
to one class only and hence the current class becomes 
limited for the definitions of the methods.

2) Loosely Coupled
In this case a class uses interface/super class 
reference to refer to another class and accesses 
limited members of the target class.

Loose Coupling allows the interface/super class
reference to refer to any class in the hierarchy
defined by the interface or the super class.

Hence the current class can get different definitions 
for the same method.

Abstract
----------
Java allows declaration of methods and classes as "abstract".

Abstract methods
-----------------
An abstract method is a method:
 * With signature (declaration) only and not body (definition).
 * That must be overridden.
 * That makes the class abstract.

Abstract class
---------------
An abstract class is a class that:
 * Cannot be instantiated.
 * Must be inherited for use.
 * Contains ZERO to MANY abstract methods.

Inheritance of Abstract Class
----------------------------
Known that by inheritance a sub class gets :
 CODE 
 DATA
 COMPATIBILITY
from the super class.

As an abstract class is inherited the sub class along 
with normal methods also inherits the abstract methods.

Due to presence of abstract methods the sub class 
also turns abstract.

If the sub class overrides all the abstract methods 
then it can become a normal class again.

Q) Known that an abstract class  cannot be instantiated, 
    can it have data members and constructors?
A) YES.
    Its data members would be the data members of the sub class.
    Its constructors would be invoked as object of the sub class is created.
    In short, all that an abstract class defines is for its sub classes.


Inheritance of Data
--------------------
By inheritance a sub class gets data
(non static data members) from the 
super class.

System implements inheritance of data
as the object of the sub class is created.

Known that object creation is 3 step process:
1) Memory Allocation
2) Execution of Non Static Initializer Block
3) Execution of Constructor.

So as the object of the sub class is created:
1) A composite block, having data members of
the super and the sub class, is allocated.
2) Non static initializer block and the constructor
of the super class executes.
3) Non static initializer block and the constructor
of the sub class executes.

Constructors for sub class objects
-------------------------------
Known that on creation of object of
the sub class the constructors, of the
super and the sub class, execute.

The order being super class constructor
first and the sub class constructor next.

The sub class constructor to execute
is decided by the parameters passed
while object creation.

But the default constructor of the
super class executes (always).

To call the parameter matching constructor
of the super class, the sub class constrcutor
must pass appropriate parameters to it
using "super" as the first statement.
